---
date: 2024-10-31 07:30:35 +0300
title: Chatbot for Food Delivery Customer Support
subtitle: Chatbot
image: '/images/samantha.webp'
---

### Problem
[Albatros Services](https://albatrosservices.com/), a solutions provider for a prominent fast-food group in Central America, sought to elevate the customer support experience for its client’s broad network of users. This fast-paced industry demanded quick, personalized responses to common inquiries, seamless order updates, and an efficient escalation path for more complex issues—all to keep pace with customer expectations.

### Solution
To meet this challenge, we developed **Samantha AI**, a chatbot designed to integrate directly with Albatros Services’ client’s food delivery platforms. Samantha AI addressed the full scope of customer support needs, from real-time assistance with order status and refunds to answering promotional inquiries.

Our work began with a **two-week discovery phase** to finalize conversation flows and align Samantha AI’s capabilities with the fast-food customer journey. Initial development on **Google Vertex AI** provided a solid foundation with natural language understanding (NLU), but limitations in retrieving specific customer information, like name and phone number, prompted us to transition to **Dialogflow CX**. Dialogflow CX allowed us to personalize user interactions and adapt Samantha AI for even greater responsiveness.

### Tools Used
- **Google Vertex AI**: Provided initial capabilities for responsive customer support through NLU.
- **Dialogflow CX**: Enabled personalized interactions by capturing user details (name, phone number), improving routing and escalation, and enhancing order management capabilities.
- **Twilio & WhatsApp**: Offered integration for seamless real-time communication, bringing Samantha AI to a platform where fast-food customers could receive immediate support.

### Outcome
Samantha AI has successfully improved response times, streamlined customer interactions, and boosted satisfaction for Albatros Services' fast-food client. By integrating Twilio and WhatsApp, the chatbot offers customers instant, 24/7 support directly through WhatsApp, ensuring accessibility and convenience.

Moving forward, Samantha AI will continue evolving with advanced features, such as detailed order tracking and sentiment analysis, to better handle escalations based on customer tone and urgency. This project exemplifies how tailored AI solutions like Samantha AI can set a new standard for customer service excellence in the fast-food delivery industry, helping Albatros Services’ client stay ahead in meeting today’s customer expectations.